1. Plan for learning	- Things or technologies you need to learn - 
	1) Every related to Spring - Spring boot, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, OAuth, etc
	2) Every thing related to Hibernate and JPA
	3) JUnit, Mockito, Spring boot test
	4) Microservices 	
	5) Docker
	6) Kubernates
	7) Kafka
	8) Jenkins
	9) AWS or Azure
	10) Thymeleaf
	11) Kibana
	12) Design patterns
	13) DDD
	14) Angular
	15) CI/CD
	16) Git/Github/JIRA/Bitbucket
	17) Maven in depth
	18) Java concurrency
	19) Algoexpert.io
	20) Swagger, Swagger UI, HATEOS
	21) SNMP Protocol
	
	
	After completing above cources mark them and make a list and notes.
	
	Add above technologies in resume. Also add Documentation creation using AcsiiDocFX, UMLet etc. 
	
2. Do personal project and build portfolio - put on AWS free

3. OCAJP Programmer 1 - February

4. Increse the SIP amount - April... wait here, open RD and save aggressively

5. New RD or Gold RD - April

6. Prepare for interview abroad and apply 

7. Job change by the end of July 

8. If job is changed, nice budget vacation alone

9. Plan for Rahyl School

10. Good health. Exercise. 

11. Read lots of novels and books. Improve vocabulary and English

12. Get involved in secondary income

13. Plan for our bigger business venture

14. Programming and Data Structure and Algorithm

Less of - 
1. Drinking. Only one beer once fortnight or in a month
2. No junk food
3. Less of eating outside
4. No more liabilities or loans. 

To implement our business we will need to take out break for mininum 6 months for IT.
To take calculate risk and take loan after 2-3 years for our business we will need to save EMI amount + some important expense for at-least 18 months i.e. 1.5 years. 
Save mininum 12 lakhs in cash
We can apply for loan immediately after job change. Talk to pappa, tell him to support in this and help to morgage our home. Assure him that you will pay complete EMi from salary. Tell him if need we will take some amount out from it for neha's marrage. Ask him to handle the busineess for 1-2 months, until every thing is settled. Then we can quit. 
Do not tell about your plan and future goal to any one, not even to any close person. 

Daily Schedule - 

2 hours for learning, watching courses
1 hours novel reading
1 hour exersize 

Wake up at - 7 AM
Get ready and reach office till 9:30 AM
Office 9:30 - 6:30 PM
In office take out 2 hours after work is done. Compulsary
Come home till 7:30 PM
Spend some time with family have light dinner
Read novel for one hour

Saturdays and Sundays - 
Don't be lazy, invest most of the time learning
Read




Takeaway - 
	DBCore
	All MBA components
	SVS
	

----


Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA)
Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD)





























