All slides are available in pdf format.


10. Maven Installation

	Maven Installation
	Maven is distributed in several formats. The simplest way to install Maven is to download a ready-made binary distribution archive and follow the installation instructions. Maven 3.3+ release requires JDK 1.7 or above to execute. (Java 11 or higher recommended for this course)



	General Requirements
	Java JDK must be installed on system.

	Java 1.7 is needed for Maven; Java 11 recommended for this course.

	To verify the Java JDK is properly installed, from your command line run the following command:

	jt$ javac --version
	You should see:

	javac 11
	This command verifies the Java complier (javac) is installed. If javac is not found, check your Java JDK installation.

	Maven will not function without a properly installed.



	Installing Maven on Windows 10
	To install Maven on Windows 10, ensure JAVA_HOME is set.

	echo %JAVA_HOME%
	Verify the above command returns a proper value. If nothing is returned, verify the Java JDK is installed on your system. JDK 1.7 is needed for the Maven. JDK 11 is recommended for the course

	Download the binary zip archive from a downloaded mirror.

	Extract the archive to a suitable location.

	Add the bin directory of the extracted Maven directory to the PATH environment variable. The steps to do so on Windows 10 is:

	Right-click This PC and select Properties.

	On the left pane, select Advance system settings.

	Click the Environment Variables button.

	In the Environment Variables dialog box that appears, double-click Path under System variables.

	Setting PATH as System Variables

	In the Edit environment variable dialog box that appears, click the New button.

	Add the path to the bin directory of the Maven installation. An example path is C:\apache-maven-3.6.0\bin

	Edit Environment Variables Dialog Box

	Click the OK button.

	Click the OK button to close the Environment Variables dialog box.

	Finally, click the OK button to close System Properties.

	Open a new command prompt window and type the following command.

	mvn -v
	This command displays the version information. This also verifies that Maven is installed on your computer.



	Installing Maven on POSIX compatible Operating System (Linux and Mac OS X)
	To install Maven on a POSIX compatible Operating System, such as Linux or Mac OS X

	Ensure JAVA_HOME is set.

	echo $JAVA_HOME
	Download the binary archive from a download mirror.

	Switch the Maven contents.

	mv Downloads/apache-maven* /opt/apache-maven
	Add Maven binaries to the PATH and append.

	export PATH=/opt/apache-maven-3.6.0/bin:$PATH
	Open a new terminal window and type this command.

	mvn -v
	This command displays the version information and verifies that Maven is installed on your computer.
	
	
----------

	java -classpath ./lib/*../ HelloWorld
	
	javac -classpath ./lib/* HelloWorld.java
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	