JIRA is a tool used for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. 
The basic use of this tool is to track issue and bugs related to your software application.
The JIRA dashboard consists of many useful functions and features which make handling of issues easy.



Bitbucket is a web based hosting service used for source code and development projects that use revision control systems.
Mostly used for code review.
It uses Git.



Bamboo is a Continuous Integration (CI)and deployement server that can be used to automate the release management for a software application, creating a continuous 
delivery pipeline.
Bamboo assists software development teams by providing: 
	- automated building and testing of software source-code status.
	- updates on successful and failed builds
	- reporting tools for statistical analysis

IBM Rational DOORS NG – for Requirements gathering and management
IBM Rational Team Concert – for Project Planning, SCM and Build management
	


Jenkins Tutorial - 
Edureka - Jenkins Tutorial For Beginners - 1 | Continuous Integration with Jenkins | DevOps Tools | Edureka

What is Continuous Integration (CI)?
Continuous Integration is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository at regular intervals. 
This concept was meant to remove the problem of finding later occurrence of issues in the build lifecycle. 
Continuous integration requires the developers to have frequent builds. The common practice is that whenever a code commit occurs, a build should be triggered.
Each check-in is then verified by an automated build, allowing teams to detect problems early and deliver the software early.

Old days of software developement (In waterfall model):
Code changes made by individual team members are merged together into working software. which was known as Integration phase.
Integration phase was a hard work which often results in code conflicts, hard to find bugs and even harder to fix them which lead to significant delivery delays.

Now people have adopted to agile methodology and work is being done faster. Now they don't built the complete software they do it in bits and pieces and work parallelly.
Means developer will complete its task, that task will automatically get integrated and built and then tester can test it immediately.

What will happen is developer will develop a code, do functional testing or unit testing, then commit the code to git repository, after commit continuous integration will take place 
automatically. 
(Developemt (commit) -> Source control (initiate CI process)-> Build (test) -> Testing (report)-> Developemt)

Continuous Integration brings following to software developement - 
	- Catch issues fast and nip them in the bud.
	- Everyone can see what's happening.
	- Automate the build.
	- Keep the build fast.
	- Stop waiting to find out if your code's going to work.
	- Continuous Integration leads to Continuous Deployment allowing you to deliver software more rapidly.
	
Continuous Integration doesn't remove the bug, but it does make them dramatically easier to find and remove.

Jenkins is a cross platform 







